When I worked at my last company we used CVS. The central repository was holy and no one could commit changes until they had been reviewed. This led to a fear of committing. What I mean is that developers would develop entire features without version control as a backup and a way to undo mistakes. If you went down one path and then decided it wasn't a good idea, you had to manually back out your changes. Also, with such large change sets, developers were almost certain to have conflicting changes. That meant merges were necessary, which could lead to more errors.

Not too long ago, I went to a talk about Git. Git is very different from CVS and even its successor Subversion. Git is distributed. What that means is that everybody has their own copy of the repository. If you want to commit you can. You no longer need to fear committing to the repository because you own it. That means you can commit more often. Git also tracks your history and keeps it intact between repositories. So if you've committed 50 times and another person pulls from your repository, they get all 50 commits. Compare that with CVS or Subversion, where everything is committed as one big change and it will become apparent why Git is much better at handling merges.

A lot of people will tell you Git is fast and Git is distributed. However, those answers are vague and don't describe why it is worth abandoning what you currently have. I think better selling points would be that Git allows developers to use their version control and makes merging the job of the version control rather than the developer. Those are what sold me.